README.md, before:

# Manga Naming Scheme

This document defines filename schemes for digital manga content consisting of image files (pages) inside archives. Rules are defined for how to name both the archive files and the image files inside said archives.

## Goals

* Filenames should always sort properly in chronological chapter order under any and all circumstances.
* Filenames should never have to be renamed after release to ensure proper sorting.
* No guessing should ever be necessary when naming files.
* All filenames should be machine-parseable in a reasonable manner.
* One should be able to repack multiple archives together.
* One should be able to repack compilation archives back into separate archives.
* In other words, repacking should always be a lossless operation information-wise.

## Archive Names

#### **Name of Manga [lang] - c000-000 x0 (mag/mix/v00-00) [Extra Information] [Group]{revision}.zip**

- **Name of Manga** is ***required***. A full title ***must*** always be used. New releases ***must*** use the same title as older releases. For first releases with no older releases to go by, here is how the title should be decided:
  - Japanese should be romanized with [Hepburn romanization](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hepburn_romanization). Long vowels (ō, ū, etc) are to be written without macrons (ou, uu, etc).
  - Non-Japanese katakana words should be romanized to the matching language (eg. レールガン should become "Railgun").
  - If a kanji is given a foreign katakana reading, the previous also applies (eg. 超電磁砲 read as レールガン should be "Railgun", ***not*** "Choudenjihou")
  - If the series has a canonical English / Western name *from the original author(s)* to go with its Japanese kanji title, it should be used instead of romanizing the Japanese kanji. Examples:
      -  シドニアの騎士 should use "Knights of Sidonia", ***not*** "Sidonia no Kishi"
      - 蒼き鋼のアルペジオ should use "Arpeggio of Blue Steel", ***not*** "Aoki Hagane no Arpeggio"
      - 鋼の錬金術師 should use "Fullmetal Alchemist", ***not*** "Hagane no Renkinjutsushi"
      - 進撃の巨人 should use "Attack on Titan", ***not*** "Shingeki no Kyojin"
  - Title Case ***should*** be used for capitalization.
- **[lang]** is a [three-letter ISO-639-2 language code](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes) ***required*** for Non-English releases. English releases are ***required*** to omit this.
- **c000** chapter number is ***required***. If multiple chapters are included (eg. if you are doing a full volume release), the range ***must*** be indicated with the **-000**. Chapter numbers ***must*** be padded to three digits minimum.
  - If a series start with no clear chapter numbering of its own, the **c** ***must*** be dropped so that only numbers remain.
  - Oneshots should be numbered as **000**, with no **c** in front. **[Extra Information]** stating that it is a oneshot **should** be included.
  - If the series starts using clear chapter numbers at some point afterwards, then the **c** ***must*** be reintroduced.
  - If chapter numbers go into four digits, the **c** ***must*** be changed into **d** to ensure correct sorting.
  - With chapter ranges, the second number ***must*** not have any unit associated with it, unless a numbering system transition happens.
  - Examples:
```
    Some Oneshot That Gets Serialized - 000 (mag) [Oneshot] [Group].zip
    Some Oneshot That Gets Serialized - c001 (mag) [Group].zip
    Some Oneshot That Gets Serialized - c002 (mag) [Group].zip
    
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - 001-003 (v01) [Group].zip
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - 009-014 (v04) [Group].zip
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - 015-c006 (v05) [Group].zip
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - c007-016 (v06) [Group].zip
    
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - c998 (mag) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - c999 (mag) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - d1000 (mag) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - d1001 (mag) [Group].zip
    
    Very Large Chapter Numbers Bunched - c986-995 (v98) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers Bunched - c996-d1005 (v99) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers Bunched - d1006-1015 (v99) [Group].zip
    
    Very Unrealistic But Technically Possible - 000-d1500 (mag) [Group].zip
```
- **x0** is intended to be used with chapters that deviate from a clear numbering system (eg. decimal chapter numbers like 10.5) already in place and ***must*** be used for these, and ***must*** be left out for regular chapters. **[Extra Information]** is ***recommended*** in these cases to specify the type of the chapter. If sequential special chapters go beyond one digit, **x** is to be changed to **y**. In the rare case of specials going to three digits in the same sequence, **z** is to be used. Examples:
```
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c001 (mag) [Magazine One] [Group].zip
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c001 x1 (mag) [Magazine Two] [Group].zip
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c002 (mag) [Magazine One] [Group].zip
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c002 x1 (mag) [Magazine Two] [Group].zip
    
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 (mag) [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x1 (mag) [Extra] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x2 (mag) [Special Arc 1] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x3 (mag) [Special Arc 2] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x4 (mag) [Special Arc 3] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x5 (mag) [Special Arc 4] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c015  (mag) [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c015 x1 (mag) [Extra] [Group].zip
    
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 x8 (v04) [Group].zip
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 x9 (v04) [Group].zip
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 y10 (v04) [Group].zip
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 y11 (v04) [Group].zip
```
- **(mag)** or **(v00)** or **(mix)** is ***required*** - all magazine scans **must** use the first one, all tankoubon scans **must** use the second, with the appropriate volume number, and any mixed content containing pages from both magazines and volumes **must** use the third option. Volume numbers are **unallowed** for magazine scans. If multiple volumes are included in a single archive, the range ***must*** be indicated with the **-00**. However, this is ***not recommended***. The range is **required** not to include an unit unless a range transition happens, ie. **v99-w100**. Volume numbers ***must*** be padded to two digits minimum. If no volume number is present, **(v00)** ***must*** be used. If volume numbers go beyond two digits, **v** is to be changed to **w** to ensure proper sorting.
- **[Extra Information]** is ***optional***.
- **[Group]** is ***required***. If group is not known, **[Unknown]** ***must*** be used.
- **{revision}** is ***optional***. Recommended formatting is either **{r0}** or **{v0}**.
- **.zip** A file extension is ***required***. Zip is the ***recommended*** archive format due to its universality.

### Examples (In natural sorting order)
```
Name of Manga - 000 (mag) [Oneshot from Comic Q] [Unknown].zip
Name of Manga - c001-005 x1 (v01) [Unknown].zip
Name of Manga - c006-010 (v02) [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c010 x1 (v02) [Omake] [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c011 (v03) [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c012-013 (mag) [BarScans].zip
Name of Manga - c014 (mag) [BarScans].zip
Name of Manga - c014 (mag) [BarScans]{v2}.zip
Name of Manga - c015 (mag) [BarScans].zip
Name of Manga - c015 x1 (v03) [Omake] [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c015 x2 (v03) [Extras] [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c016-020 x1 (v04) [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga [jpn] - c011-015 x2 (v03) [Unknown].zip
Name of Manga [jpn] - c014 (mag) [Unknown].zip
```

# Page Names

This will define how to name individual pages inside archives. To be added.

Commit message:

Add info about describing web releases

README.md, after:

# Manga Naming Scheme

This document defines filename schemes for digital manga content consisting of image files (pages) inside archives. Rules are defined for how to name both the archive files and the image files inside said archives.

## Goals

* Filenames should always sort properly in chronological chapter order under any and all circumstances.
* Filenames should never have to be renamed after release to ensure proper sorting.
* No guessing should ever be necessary when naming files.
* All filenames should be machine-parseable in a reasonable manner.
* One should be able to repack multiple archives together.
* One should be able to repack compilation archives back into separate archives.
* In other words, repacking should always be a lossless operation information-wise.

## Archive Names

#### **Name of Manga [lang] - c000-000 x0 (mag/web/mix/v00-00) [Extra Information] [Group]{revision}.zip**

- **Name of Manga** is ***required***. A full title ***must*** always be used. New releases ***must*** use the same title as older releases. For first releases with no older releases to go by, here is how the title should be decided:
  - Japanese should be romanized with [Hepburn romanization](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hepburn_romanization). Long vowels (ō, ū, etc) are to be written without macrons (ou, uu, etc).
  - Non-Japanese katakana words should be romanized to the matching language (eg. レールガン should become "Railgun").
  - If a kanji is given a foreign katakana reading, the previous also applies (eg. 超電磁砲 read as レールガン should be "Railgun", ***not*** "Choudenjihou")
  - If the series has a canonical English / Western name *from the original author(s)* to go with its Japanese kanji title, it should be used instead of romanizing the Japanese kanji. Examples:
      -  シドニアの騎士 should use "Knights of Sidonia", ***not*** "Sidonia no Kishi"
      - 蒼き鋼のアルペジオ should use "Arpeggio of Blue Steel", ***not*** "Aoki Hagane no Arpeggio"
      - 鋼の錬金術師 should use "Fullmetal Alchemist", ***not*** "Hagane no Renkinjutsushi"
      - 進撃の巨人 should use "Attack on Titan", ***not*** "Shingeki no Kyojin"
  - Title Case ***should*** be used for capitalization.
- **[lang]** is a [three-letter ISO-639-2 language code](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes) ***required*** for Non-English releases. English releases are ***required*** to omit this.
- **c000** chapter number is ***required***. If multiple chapters are included (eg. if you are doing a full volume release), the range ***must*** be indicated with the **-000**. Chapter numbers ***must*** be padded to three digits minimum.
  - If a series start with no clear chapter numbering of its own, the **c** ***must*** be dropped so that only numbers remain.
  - Oneshots should be numbered as **000**, with no **c** in front. **[Extra Information]** stating that it is a oneshot **should** be included.
  - If the series starts using clear chapter numbers at some point afterwards, then the **c** ***must*** be reintroduced.
  - If chapter numbers go into four digits, the **c** ***must*** be changed into **d** to ensure correct sorting.
  - With chapter ranges, the second number ***must*** not have any unit associated with it, unless a numbering system transition happens.
  - Examples:
```
    Some Oneshot That Gets Serialized - 000 (mag) [Oneshot] [Group].zip
    Some Oneshot That Gets Serialized - c001 (mag) [Group].zip
    Some Oneshot That Gets Serialized - c002 (mag) [Group].zip
    
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - 001-003 (v01) [Group].zip
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - 009-014 (v04) [Group].zip
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - 015-c006 (v05) [Group].zip
    Unnumbered Initial Chapters - c007-016 (v06) [Group].zip
    
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - c998 (mag) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - c999 (mag) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - d1000 (mag) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers - d1001 (mag) [Group].zip
    
    Very Large Chapter Numbers Bunched - c986-995 (v98) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers Bunched - c996-d1005 (v99) [Group].zip
    Very Large Chapter Numbers Bunched - d1006-1015 (v99) [Group].zip
    
    Very Unrealistic But Technically Possible - 000-d1500 (mag) [Group].zip
```
- **x0** is intended to be used with chapters that deviate from a clear numbering system (eg. decimal chapter numbers like 10.5) already in place and ***must*** be used for these, and ***must*** be left out for regular chapters. **[Extra Information]** is ***recommended*** in these cases to specify the type of the chapter. If sequential special chapters go beyond one digit, **x** is to be changed to **y**. In the rare case of specials going to three digits in the same sequence, **z** is to be used. Examples:
```
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c001 (mag) [Magazine One] [Group].zip
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c001 x1 (mag) [Magazine Two] [Group].zip
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c002 (mag) [Magazine One] [Group].zip
    Serialized in Two Magazines - c002 x1 (mag) [Magazine Two] [Group].zip
    
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 (mag) [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x1 (mag) [Extra] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x2 (mag) [Special Arc 1] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x3 (mag) [Special Arc 2] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x4 (mag) [Special Arc 3] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c014 x5 (mag) [Special Arc 4] [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c015  (mag) [Group].zip
    Lots of Bonus Chapters - c015 x1 (mag) [Extra] [Group].zip
    
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 x8 (v04) [Group].zip
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 x9 (v04) [Group].zip
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 y10 (v04) [Group].zip
    Way Too Much Bonus Chapters - c020 y11 (v04) [Group].zip
```
- **(mag)** or **(web)** **(v00)** or **(mix)** is ***required*** - all magazine scans **must** use the first one, all non-volume web releases **must** use the second one, all tankoubon releases (whether scans or digital) **must** use the third one, with the appropriate volume number, and any mixed content containing pages from, magazines, web versions and/or volumes **must** use the third option. Volume numbers are **unallowed** for magazine scans and web releases. If multiple volumes are included in a single archive, the range ***must*** be indicated with the **-00**. However, this is ***not recommended***. The range is **required** not to include an unit unless a range transition happens, ie. **v99-w100**. Volume numbers ***must*** be padded to two digits minimum. If no volume number is present, **(v00)** ***must*** be used. If volume numbers go beyond two digits, **v** is to be changed to **w** to ensure proper sorting.
- **[Extra Information]** is ***optional***.
- **[Group]** is ***required***. If group is not known, **[Unknown]** ***must*** be used.
- **{revision}** is ***optional***. Recommended formatting is either **{r0}** or **{v0}**.
- **.zip** A file extension is ***required***. Zip is the ***recommended*** archive format due to its universality.

### Examples (In natural sorting order)
```
Name of Manga - 000 (mag) [Oneshot from Comic Q] [Unknown].zip
Name of Manga - c001-005 x1 (v01) [Unknown].zip
Name of Manga - c006-010 (v02) [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c010 x1 (v02) [Omake] [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c011 (v03) [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c012-013 (mag) [BarScans].zip
Name of Manga - c014 (mag) [BarScans].zip
Name of Manga - c014 (mag) [BarScans]{v2}.zip
Name of Manga - c015 (mag) [BarScans].zip
Name of Manga - c015 x1 (v03) [Omake] [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c015 x2 (v03) [Extras] [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga - c016-020 x1 (v04) [FooScans].zip
Name of Manga [jpn] - c011-015 x2 (v03) [Unknown].zip
Name of Manga [jpn] - c014 (mag) [Unknown].zip
```

# Page Names

This will define how to name individual pages inside archives. To be added.
